		
/* *********************** */

Introduction:

first - what is node:
abstract data type stores 2 things: 
	1-stores data. whatever you want: int, boolean, hashmap, your-own-custom-objects, or all of the above. 	 
	2-stores pointers to other nodes.

second - what is graph:
any collection of nodes and their pointers to other nodes. In fact, linked lists and trees are both types of graphs:
in linked list - the start node call "head",
in trees start node call "root".

third, vertices and edges:
The nodes of a graph are also called vertices, and the pointers that connect them are called edges. In graphical representations, nodes/vertices are usually represented with circles and the edges are lines/arrows that connect the circles (we saw this in the linked lists chapter).

real life example of tree:
1. File systems - The root directory, and subfolders/files
2. A comment thread on an app like facebook or Twitter - The original post/tweet, and the comments and replies
3. A company's organization chart - The CEO, and direct reports:
	CEO == root. lets say CEO has 6 "children":
	 people in the C-Suite (like CFO, COO, CTO). every C-suits, got VP report to them and so on.
	 important characteristics: each person only has 1 manager (parent), and the entire tree is connected (if you start at anyone and continuously trace their managers, you will always end up at the CEO).


Tree's notions:
multiple types of trees: here we do binary trees - so, there are only up to 2 childern per parent node:
in binary trees - "children" called as left/right node.
leaf == node with no children.
if given node A with an edge(=ptr) to node B, then B is the child and A is the parent.

"depth / level / hight" == how far the node from the root node
The root has a depth of 0, Every child has a depth of "parentsDepth+1".

"subtree of a tree" is a node and all its descendants - we are just refer that node as the root.
you can take any given node and treat it as its own tree, which allows you to solve problems in a recursive manner.


/* *********************** */

Binary trees - DFS

2 main types of tree traversals:
1.  DFS - depth-first search	- with 3 ways: preorder, inorder and postorder. usually implemented using recruesion.
2.  BFS - breadth-first search	- implemented using iterative queue.

Iterative DFS:
can implemented iteratively by Stack, but much longer source code (preorder implement the shortest, other 2 implemented even longer).
to use iterative way, have to use 2 stacks or 1 stack with "Pair class" see "A2_PathSum_112" example.


DFS:
(Recall that the depth of a node is its distance from the root).
chooses a branch and goes as far down as possible.
Once it fully explores the branch, it backtracks until it finds another unexplored branch.

3 techniqes to travere in DFS:
1. Preorder traversal:
"logic" (like, print value) is done on current node before "order"-moving to the children. handles nodes in the same order that the function calls happen (easiest to implement iterativly with stack, the other 2 harder).

2. Inorder traversal:
first recursively call the left child, then perform logic (like all values in the left subtree are printed), and values in its right subtree are not printed until after that. 
I,E. Left nodes will be handled until there are none, then the original node, then right nodes until there are none.

3. Postorder traversal:
recursively call on the children first and then perform logic (like print) on the current node. root is the last node where logic is done. (Left nodes will be handled until there are none, then right nodes, then finally the original node - root last)

/* *********************** */

Binary trees - BFS
prioritize breadth over depth!

implement:
- DFS implement using a stack (recursion uses a stack under the hood, also when want to traverse DFS iterative use 2Stack or stack with Pair class).
- BFS implemented iteratively with a Q.


DFS vs. BFS:
each problem can be solved by both!
implement DFS usually quicker because it requires less code.
sometimes - BFS makes way more sense. as problem where we want to handle the nodes according to their level. (A6_MinDepthOfBinaryTree_111 BFS faster!)

space complexity:
DFS - linear with the height of the tree (the maximum depth)
BFS - linear with the level that has the most nodes.
	Example: 
	in perfect tree: 
	DFS - use O(n log n)
	BFS - use O(0.5 n) - last level has half of all nodes in the tree.
	
	lopsided tree(like a straight line):
	DFS - O(1n)
	BFS - O1


Recursion shine in DFS, 
Stack shines when implement DFS iteratively.
Q shine in BFS.

/* *********************** */

BST == Binary search trees
"For each node, all values in its left subtree are less than the value in the node, and all values in its right subtree are greater than the value in the node."
"This property also implies that values in a BST must be unique."

complexity:
searching, adding, and removing - can be done at O(log n) on average.
why average? -because if the tree in linen (as link list) then will take O1n.


"inorder DFS" traversal prioritizing left before right on a BST will handle the nodes in sorted order.

Typically, BST (binary search trees) do not allow duplicate values. Why do you think this is?
- The BST property has no ambiguity. Lesser values go left, and greater values go right. If you allow duplicate values, it raises the question: do equal values go left or right?
there are many algorithms that would break if duplicate values were allowed, for example, common implementations of red-black trees.

/* *********************** */

Types of binary Trees:

"Degenerate / Pathological tree": 	
each parent node, has only one associated child node or no child, so its more of a linked-list.
but, its not dominant by one side! more of a zig-zag.

"Skewed Tree": 					
a "degenerate tree" in which the tree is either dominated by the left /right nodes (==left/right skewed).
So, degenerate - can be zig-zag tree, skewed cant - must dominated to one of the sides.

"Full / proper / plane / strict / binary tree":	 
each node with 0/2 offspring, no 1 child!

"Perfect binary tree":	 
each node with 2 offspring!
having the maximum number of nodes == 2^(h+1)-1.
	all leaves have same depth.

"Complete binary tree":	 
is a "perfect binary tree", but not at last level of depth.
at last level of depth - can be with 0/1/2 nodes, at last all nodes are as left as possible.
	Intuitive when represent tree's with array - comlete trees do not have null inside array.
uses - for Heap Sort.

/* *********************** */

Extra Tree (do not have practice problem here - only theory):

"Balanced binary tree", 3 rules:
	1. left  subtree also balance.
	2. right subtree also balance.
	3. The height of the left and right tree for any node does not differ by more than 1 (called "balance factor"). 
The idea is to keep the tree height as small as possible to ensure operations like search, insert, and delete in O(logN).
The cost of these operations may become O(n) for a skewed binary tree - so we keep it height min as possible (=OlogN).


Each type of balanced tree uses different techniques to achieve shorten height:
1. AVL Trees: 		 Use strict balancing and rotations.
2. Red-Black Trees:  Use less strict rotations , but also use color properties.
3. B-Trees: 		 Generalize BST by allowing nodes to have more than two children. commonly used in databases.
4. Splay Trees: 	 Use splaying to move frequently accessed elements to the root.
5. 2-3 Trees: 		 Ensure balance by splitting and merging nodes (each node has 2/3 children with 1/2 keys).


AVL Vs. Red-Black Trees - AVL slower on insert and delete faster on lookup, red-black faster on insert-delete slower on lookup.
